deployment: add helm charts, configuration and openshift docs (#30)
inveniosoftware/docs-invenio-rdm: docs/deployment/openshift.md

# OpenShift

## Pre-Requirements

- [Global deployment pre-requirements](index.md#pre-requirements)
- [OpenShift CLI](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-installing-cli_cli-developer-commands) version 3.11+

## Deploying InvenioRDM

> First of all login and select the right project in your OpenShift cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, login and select the right project in your OpenShift cluster:
```

```console
$ oc login <your.openshift.cluster>
$ oc project invenio
```

### Secrets

> Before deploying in need to provide the credentials so the application can access the different services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying, you need to provide the credentials so the application can access the different services. Replace the credentials and configuration below with your own:
```

**Database secrets:**

```console
$ POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD=$(openssl rand -hex 8)
$ POSTGRESQL_USER=invenio
$ POSTGRESQL_HOST=db
$ POSTGRESQL_PORT=5432
$ POSTGRESQL_DATABASE=invenio
$ oc create secret generic \
  --from-literal="POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD=$POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD" \
  --from-literal="SQLALCHEMY_DB_URI=postgresql+psycopg2://$POSTGRESQL_USER:$POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD@$POSTGRESQL_HOST:$POSTGRESQL_PORT/$POSTGRESQL_DATABASE" \
  db-secrets
secret "db-secrets" created
```

**RabbitMQ secrets:**

```console
$ RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_PASS=$(openssl rand -hex 8)
$ oc create secret generic \
  --from-literal="RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_PASS=$RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_PASS" \
  --from-literal="CELERY_BROKER_URL=amqp://guest:$RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_PASS@mq:5672/" \
  mq-secrets
secret "mq-secrets" created
```

**Elasticsearch secrets:**

> !!! info "Elasticaserch variables"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! info "Elasticsearch variables"
```

    Currently, and until [invenio-search#198](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-search/issues/198) has been addressed, the Elasticsearch configuration
    has to be loaded in a single environment variable.

``` console
$ export INVENIO_SEARCH_ELASTIC_HOSTS="[{'host': 'localhost', 'timeout': 30, 'port': 9200, 'use_ssl': True, 'http_auth':('USERNAME_CHANGEME', 'PASSWORD_CHANGEME')}]"
$ oc create secret generic \
  --from-literal="INVENIO_SEARCH_ELASTIC_HOSTS=$INVENIO_SEARCH_ELASTIC_HOSTS" \
  elasticsearch-secrets
```

!!! info "Extra configuration is possible"

>     Note that you might need to add extra configuration to the elasticsearch hosts, sucha as vertificate verification (`verify_certs`), prefixing (`url_prefix`) and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Note that you might need to add extra configuration to the Elasticsearch hosts, such as certificate verification (`verify_certs`), prefixing (`url_prefix`) and more.
```

### Install InvenioRDM

> Before installing you need to configure two things, the rest are optional and you can read more about it [here](configuration.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing you need to configure two things in your `values.yml` file. The rest are optional and you can read more about them [here](configuration.md):
```

> - Your host in a `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The host.
```

- The web/worker docker images.

``` yaml
host: yourhost.localhost

web:
  image: your/invenio-image

worker:
  image: your/invenio-image
```

> The next step is the installation itself, with your own configuration in the `values.yaml`. If you added the repository you can install it by using the chart name and the desired version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is the installation itself, with your own configuration in the `values.yaml`. If you added the repository, you can install it by using the chart name and the desired version:
```

### Setup the instance

Once the instance has been installed you have to set up the services. Note that this step is only needed the first time, if you are upgrading the instance this is not needed.

Get a bash terminal in a web pod:

```console
$ oc get pods
$ oc exec -it <web-pod> bash
```

Setup the instance using the `invenio` commands:

``` console
$ . scl_source enable rh-python36
$ invenio db init # If the db does not exist already, otherwise `create` is enough
$ invenio db create
$ invenio index init
$ invenio index queue init purge
$ invenio files location --default 'default-location'  $(invenio shell --no-term-title -c "print(app.instance_path)")'/data'
$ invenio roles create admin
$ invenio access allow superuser-access role admin
```

#### Launching jobs

**One time job**

In some cases you might want to run jobs, for example to populate the instance with records.

``` console
$ oc process -f job.yml --param JOB_NAME='demo-data-1' \
  --param JOB_COMMAND='invenio rdm-records demo' | oc create -f -
```

**Cron job**

> Now imagine you might have some bulk record creation that needs to be indexed, or any other task that you have to do every certain period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, imagine you have some bulk record indexing, or any other task that you have to do periodically.
```

> For that you can define cronjobs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that, you can define cronjobs:
```

``` console
$ oc process -f cronjob.yml --param JOB_NAME=index-run \
  --param JOB_COMMAND=invenio index run -d | oc create -f -
```

### Upgrade your instance

If you have performed some changes to your instance (e.g. configuration) or you want to upgrade the version of the charts, you can do so with

> the `upgrade` command of `helm`, note that you still need to disable the openapi validation which is only supoprted after version 3.1.2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `upgrade` command of `helm`. Note that you still need to disable the openapi validation which is only supported after version 3.1.2:
```
